SEOImages: User Story 1463880, Part 30 (#11410)
dotnet/docs: docs/framework/wcf/feature-details/workflow-service-host-internals.md

<xref:System.ServiceModel.WorkflowServiceHost> provides a host for workflow services. It is responsible for listening for incoming messages and routing them to the appropriate workflow service instance, it controls unloading and persisting of idle workflows, and more. This topic describes how WorkflowServiceHost processes incoming messages.  
  
## WorkflowServiceHost Overview  

>  The <xref:System.ServiceModel.WorkflowServiceHost> class is used to host workflow services. It listens for incoming messages and routes them to the appropriate service instance, creating new instances or loading existing instances from durable storage as needed.  The following diagram illustrates on a high level how <xref:System.ServiceModel.WorkflowServiceHost> works: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The <xref:System.ServiceModel.WorkflowServiceHost> class is used to host workflow services. It listens for incoming messages and routes them to the appropriate service instance, creating new instances or loading existing instances from durable storage as needed. The following diagram illustrates on a high level how <xref:System.ServiceModel.WorkflowServiceHost> works: 
```

>  ![Diagram that shows a Workflow Service Host overview.](./media/workflow-service-host-internals/workflow-service-host-high-level-overview.gif)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ![Diagram that shows an overview of the Workflow Service Host.](./media/workflow-service-host-internals/workflow-service-host-high-level-overview.gif)  
```

  
 The following illustration shows the flow when WorkflowServiceHost.Open is called:  
  
 ![Diagram that shows the flow when WorkflowServiceHost.Open is called.](./media/workflow-service-host-internals/workflow-service-host-open.gif)  
  
 The workflow is loaded from XAML and the activity tree is created. <xref:System.ServiceModel.WorkflowServiceHost> walks the activity tree and creates the service description. Configuration is applied to the host. Finally the host begins to listen for incoming messages.  
  
 The following illustration shows what the <xref:System.ServiceModel.WorkflowServiceHost> does when it receives a message bound for a Receive activity that has CanCreateInstance set to `true`:  
  

>  ![Image showing when WFS Host receives a message and CanCreateInstance is true.](./media/workflow-service-host-internals/workflow-service-host-receive-message-cancreateinstance.gif)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ![Decision tree used by the WFS Host when it receives a message and CanCreateInstance is true.](./media/workflow-service-host-internals/workflow-service-host-receive-message-cancreateinstance.gif)  
```

  
 The message arrives and is processed by the WCF channel stack. Throttles are checked and correlation queries are executed. If the message is bound for an existing instance the message is delivered. If a new instance needs to be created, the Receive activity’s CanCreateInstance property is checked. If it is set to true, a new instance is created and the message is delivered.  
  
 The following illustration shows what the <xref:System.ServiceModel.WorkflowServiceHost> does when it receives a message bound for a Receive activity that has CanCreateInstance set to false.  
  

>  ![Image showing when WFS Host receives a message and CanCreateInstance is false.](./media/workflow-service-host-internals/workflow-service-host-receive-message.gif)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ![Decision tree used by the WFS Host when it receives a message and CanCreateInstance is false.](./media/workflow-service-host-internals/workflow-service-host-receive-message.gif)  
```
